INSTALL.md, before:

# Table of contents

* [Platforms](#platforms)
* [Get the source code](#get-the-source-code)
* [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  * [Windows dependencies](#windows-dependencies)
  * [macOS dependencies](#macos-dependencies)
  * [Linux dependencies](#linux-dependencies)
* [Compiling](#compiling)
  * [Windows details](#windows-details)
    * [MinGW](#mingw)
  * [macOS details](#macos-details)
    * [Issues with Retina displays](#issues-with-retina-displays)
  * [Linux details](#linux-details)
* [Using shared third party libraries](#using-shared-third-party-libraries)

# Platforms

You should be able to compile Aseprite successfully on the following
platforms:

* Windows 11 + [Visual Studio Community 2022 + Windows 10.0 SDK (the latest version available)](https://imgur.com/a/7zs51IT) (we don't support [MinGW](#mingw))
* macOS 13.0.1 Ventura + Xcode 14.1 + macOS 11.3 SDK (older version might work)
* Linux Ubuntu Bionic 18.04 + clang 10.0

# Get the source code

You can get the source code downloading a `Aseprite-v1.x-Source.zip`
file from the latest Aseprite release (*in that case please follow the
compilation instructions inside the `.zip` file*):

https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite/releases

Or you can clone the repository and all its submodules using the
following command:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite.git

To update an existing clone you can use the following commands:

    cd aseprite
    git pull
    git submodule update --init --recursive

You can use [Git for Windows](https://git-for-windows.github.io/) to
clone the repository on Windows.

# Dependencies

To compile Aseprite you will need:

* The latest version of [CMake](https://cmake.org) (3.16 or greater)
* [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org) build system
* And a compiled version of the `aseprite-m102` branch of
  the [Skia library](https://github.com/aseprite/skia#readme).
  There are [pre-built packages available](https://github.com/aseprite/skia/releases).
  You can get some extra information in
  the [*laf* dependencies](https://github.com/aseprite/laf#dependencies) page.

## Windows dependencies

* Windows 10/11 (we don't support cross-compiling)
* [Visual Studio Community 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) (we don't support [MinGW](#mingw))
* The [Desktop development with C++ item + Windows 10.0.18362.0 SDK](https://imgur.com/a/7zs51IT)
  from the Visual Studio installer

## macOS dependencies

On macOS you will need macOS 11.3 SDK and Xcode 13.1 (older versions
might work).

## Linux dependencies

You will need the following dependencies on Ubuntu/Debian:

    sudo apt-get install -y g++ clang libc++-dev libc++abi-dev cmake ninja-build libx11-dev libxcursor-dev libxi-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libfontconfig1-dev

Or use clang-10 packages (or newer) in case that clang in your distribution is older than clang 10.0:

    sudo apt-get install -y clang-10 libc++-10-dev libc++abi-10-dev

On Fedora:

    sudo dnf install -y gcc-c++ clang libcxx-devel cmake ninja-build libX11-devel libXcursor-devel libXi-devel mesa-libGL-devel fontconfig-devel

On Arch:

    sudo pacman -S gcc clang libc++ cmake ninja libx11 libxcursor mesa-libgl fontconfig libwebp

On SUSE:

    sudo zypper install gcc-c++ clang libc++-devel libc++abi-devel cmake ninja libX11-devel libXcursor-devel libXi-devel Mesa-libGL-devel fontconfig-devel

# Compiling

1. [Get Aseprite code](#get-the-source-code), put it in a folder like
   `C:\aseprite`, and create a `build` directory inside to leave all
   the files that are result of the compilation process (`.exe`,
   `.lib`, `.obj`, `.a`, `.o`, etc).

        cd C:\aseprite
        mkdir build

   In this way, if you want to start with a fresh copy of Aseprite
   source code, you can remove the `build` directory and start again.

2. Enter in the new directory and execute `cmake`:

        cd C:\aseprite\build
        cmake -G Ninja -DLAF_BACKEND=skia ..

   Here `cmake` needs different options depending on your
   platform. You must check the details for
   [Windows](#windows-details), [macOS](#macos-details), and
   [Linux](#linux-details). Some `cmake` options can be modified using tools like
   [`ccmake`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ccmake.1.html)
   or [`cmake-gui`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-gui.1.html).

3. After you have executed and configured `cmake`, you have to compile
   the project:

        cd C:\aseprite\build
        ninja aseprite

4. When `ninja` finishes the compilation, you can find the executable
   inside `C:\aseprite\build\bin\aseprite.exe`.

## Windows details

Open a command prompt window with the VS 2022 tools. For this you can
search for `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022` in the Start
menu, or open a `cmd.exe` terminal and run:

    call "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\VsDevCmd.bat" -arch=x64

The command above is required while using the 64-bit version of
Skia. When compiling with the 32-bit version, it is possible to open a
[developer command prompt](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs)
instead.

And then

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo -DLAF_BACKEND=skia -DSKIA_DIR=C:\deps\skia -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=C:\deps\skia\out\Release-x64 -DSKIA_LIBRARY=C:\deps\skia\out\Release-x64\skia.lib -G Ninja ..
    ninja aseprite

In this case, `C:\deps\skia` is the directory where Skia was compiled
or uncompressed.

### MinGW

We don't support MinGW compiler and it might bring some problems into
the compilation process. If you see that the detected C++ compiler by
cmake is `C:\MinGW\bin\c++.exe` or something similar, you have to get
rid of MinGW path (`C:\MinGW\bin`) from the `PATH` environment
variable and run cmake again from scratch, so the Visual Studio C++
compiler (`cl.exe`) is used instead.

You can define the `CMAKE_IGNORE_PATH` variable when running cmake for
the first time in case that you don't know or don't want to modify the
`PATH` variable, e.g.:

    cmake -DCMAKE_IGNORE_PATH=C:\MinGW\bin ...

More information in [issue #2449](https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite/issues/2449)

## macOS details

Run `cmake` with the following parameters and then `ninja`:

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES=x86_64 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.9 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk \
      -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
      -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64 \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64/libskia.a \
      -G Ninja \
      ..
    ninja aseprite

In this case, `$HOME/deps/skia` is the directory where Skia was
compiled or downloaded.  Make sure that `CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT` is
pointing to the correct SDK directory (in this case
`/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk`),
but it could be different in your Mac.

### Apple Silicon

If you running macOS on an ARM64/AArch64/Apple Silicon Mac (e.g. M1),
you can compile a native ARM64 version of Aseprite following similar
steps as above but when we call `cmake`, we have some differences:

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES=arm64 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=11.0 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk \
      -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
      -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-arm64 \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-arm64/libskia.a \
      -DPNG_ARM_NEON:STRING=on \
      -G Ninja \
      ..
    ninja aseprite

### Issues with Retina displays

If you have a Retina display, check the following issue:

  https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite/issues/589

## Linux details

You need to use clang and libc++ to compile Aseprite:

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    export CC=clang
    export CXX=clang++
    cmake \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
      -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS:STRING=-stdlib=libc++ \
      -DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS:STRING=-stdlib=libc++ \
      -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
      -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64 \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64/libskia.a \
      -G Ninja \
      ..
    ninja aseprite

In this case, `$HOME/deps/skia` is the directory where Skia was
compiled or uncompressed.

### GCC compiler

In case that you are using the pre-compiled Skia version, you must use
the clang compiler and libc++ to compile Aseprite. Only if you compile
Skia with GCC, you will be able to compile Aseprite with GCC, and this
is not recommended as you will have a performance penalty doing so.

# Using shared third party libraries

If you don't want to use the embedded code of third party libraries
(i.e. to use your installed versions), you can disable static linking
configuring each `USE_SHARED_` option.

After running `cmake -G`, you can edit `build/CMakeCache.txt` file,
and enable the `USE_SHARED_` flag (set its value to `ON`) of the
library that you want to be linked dynamically.

Commit message:

Clarify supported CMake versions and encourage build script usage

INSTALL.md, after:

# Table of contents

* [Platforms](#platforms)
* [Get the source code](#get-the-source-code)
* [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  * [Windows dependencies](#windows-dependencies)
  * [macOS dependencies](#macos-dependencies)
  * [Linux dependencies](#linux-dependencies)
* [Compiling](#compiling)
  * [Windows details](#windows-details)
    * [MinGW](#mingw)
  * [macOS details](#macos-details)
    * [Issues with Retina displays](#issues-with-retina-displays)
  * [Linux details](#linux-details)
* [Using shared third party libraries](#using-shared-third-party-libraries)

# Platforms

You should be able to compile Aseprite successfully on the following
platforms:

* Windows 11 + [Visual Studio Community 2022 + Windows 10.0 SDK (the latest version available)](https://imgur.com/a/7zs51IT) (we don't support [MinGW](#mingw))
* macOS 13.0.1 Ventura + Xcode 14.1 + macOS 11.3 SDK (older version might work)
* Linux Ubuntu Bionic 18.04 + clang 10.0

# Get the source code

You can get the source code downloading a `Aseprite-v1.x-Source.zip`
file from the latest Aseprite release (*in that case please follow the
compilation instructions inside the `.zip` file*):

https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite/releases

Or you can clone the repository and all its submodules using the
following command:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite.git

To update an existing clone you can use the following commands:

    cd aseprite
    git pull
    git submodule update --init --recursive

You can use [Git for Windows](https://git-for-windows.github.io/) to
clone the repository on Windows.

# Dependencies

To compile Aseprite you will need:

* The latest version of [CMake 3](https://cmake.org)  (3.16 <= `cmake --version` < 4)
  * submodule `libpng` uses [`cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.1)`](third_party\libpng\CMakeLists.txt) which is not supported in CMake 4+
* [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org) build system
* And a compiled version of the `aseprite-m102` branch of
  the [Skia library](https://github.com/aseprite/skia#readme).
  There are [pre-built packages available](https://github.com/aseprite/skia/releases).
  You can get some extra information in
  the [*laf* dependencies](https://github.com/aseprite/laf#dependencies) page.

## Windows dependencies

* Windows 10/11 (we don't support cross-compiling)
* [Visual Studio Community 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) (we don't support [MinGW](#mingw))
* The [Desktop development with C++ item + Windows 10.0.18362.0 SDK](https://imgur.com/a/7zs51IT)
  from the Visual Studio installer

## macOS dependencies

On macOS you will need macOS 11.3 SDK and Xcode 13.1 (older versions
might work).

## Linux dependencies

You will need the following dependencies on Ubuntu/Debian:

    sudo apt-get install -y g++ clang libc++-dev libc++abi-dev cmake ninja-build libx11-dev libxcursor-dev libxi-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libfontconfig1-dev

Or use clang-10 packages (or newer) in case that clang in your distribution is older than clang 10.0:

    sudo apt-get install -y clang-10 libc++-10-dev libc++abi-10-dev

On Fedora:

    sudo dnf install -y gcc-c++ clang libcxx-devel cmake ninja-build libX11-devel libXcursor-devel libXi-devel mesa-libGL-devel fontconfig-devel

On Arch:

    sudo pacman -S gcc clang libc++ cmake ninja libx11 libxcursor mesa-libgl fontconfig libwebp

On SUSE:

    sudo zypper install gcc-c++ clang libc++-devel libc++abi-devel cmake ninja libX11-devel libXcursor-devel libXi-devel Mesa-libGL-devel fontconfig-devel

# Compiling

1. [Get Aseprite code](#get-the-source-code), put it in a folder like
   `C:\aseprite`, and create a `build` directory inside to leave all
   the files that are result of the compilation process (`.exe`,
   `.lib`, `.obj`, `.a`, `.o`, etc).

        cd C:\aseprite
        mkdir build

   In this way, if you want to start with a fresh copy of Aseprite
   source code, you can remove the `build` directory and start again.

2. Enter in the new directory and execute `cmake` directly...

        cd C:\aseprite\build
        cmake -G Ninja -DLAF_BACKEND=skia ..

    OR run the build script  `build.sh` (see platform-specific details):

        ./build.sh
        
   Here `cmake` needs different options depending on your
   platform. You must check the details for
   [Windows](#windows-details), [macOS](#macos-details), and
   [Linux](#linux-details). Some `cmake` options can be modified using tools like
   [`ccmake`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ccmake.1.html)
   or [`cmake-gui`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-gui.1.html).

3. After you have executed and configured `cmake`, you have to compile
   the project:

        cd C:\aseprite\build
        ninja aseprite

4. When `ninja` finishes the compilation, you can find the executable
   inside `C:\aseprite\build\bin\aseprite.exe`.

## Windows details

Open a command prompt window with the VS 2022 tools. For this you can
search for `x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2022` in the Start
menu, or open a `cmd.exe` terminal and run:

    call "C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Community\Common7\Tools\VsDevCmd.bat" -arch=x64

The command above is required while using the 64-bit version of
Skia. When compiling with the 32-bit version, it is possible to open a
[developer command prompt](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/tools/developer-command-prompt-for-vs)
instead.

And then, if using cmake directly

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo -DLAF_BACKEND=skia -DSKIA_DIR=C:\deps\skia -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=C:\deps\skia\out\Release-x64 -DSKIA_LIBRARY=C:\deps\skia\out\Release-x64\skia.lib -G Ninja ..
    ninja aseprite

In this case, `C:\deps\skia` is the directory where Skia was compiled
or uncompressed. 

Alternatively, use `build.cmd` or `build.ps1`

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    ./build.cmd

Follow the prompts setting build dir appropriately.

Script config is saved to `.build` in case of issues.

Script can be rerun from scratch by using `build.cmd --reset`.

Note that this resets the configuration script. It does not remove CMake artifacts and existing builds.

### MinGW

We don't support MinGW compiler and it might bring some problems into
the compilation process. If you see that the detected C++ compiler by
cmake is `C:\MinGW\bin\c++.exe` or something similar, you have to get
rid of MinGW path (`C:\MinGW\bin`) from the `PATH` environment
variable and run cmake again from scratch, so the Visual Studio C++
compiler (`cl.exe`) is used instead.

You can define the `CMAKE_IGNORE_PATH` variable when running cmake for
the first time in case that you don't know or don't want to modify the
`PATH` variable, e.g.:

    cmake -DCMAKE_IGNORE_PATH=C:\MinGW\bin ...

More information in [issue #2449](https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite/issues/2449)

## macOS details

Run `cmake` with the following parameters and then `ninja`:

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES=x86_64 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.9 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk \
      -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
      -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64 \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64/libskia.a \
      -G Ninja \
      ..
    ninja aseprite

In this case, `$HOME/deps/skia` is the directory where Skia was
compiled or downloaded.  Make sure that `CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT` is
pointing to the correct SDK directory (in this case
`/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk`),
but it could be different in your Mac.

### Apple Silicon

If you running macOS on an ARM64/AArch64/Apple Silicon Mac (e.g. M1),
you can compile a native ARM64 version of Aseprite following similar
steps as above but when we call `cmake`, we have some differences:

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES=arm64 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=11.0 \
      -DCMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT=/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX.sdk \
      -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
      -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-arm64 \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-arm64/libskia.a \
      -DPNG_ARM_NEON:STRING=on \
      -G Ninja \
      ..
    ninja aseprite

### Issues with Retina displays

If you have a Retina display, check the following issue:

  https://github.com/aseprite/aseprite/issues/589

## Linux details

You need to use clang and libc++ to compile Aseprite:

    cd aseprite
    mkdir build
    cd build
    export CC=clang
    export CXX=clang++
    cmake \
      -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo \
      -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS:STRING=-stdlib=libc++ \
      -DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS:STRING=-stdlib=libc++ \
      -DLAF_BACKEND=skia \
      -DSKIA_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY_DIR=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64 \
      -DSKIA_LIBRARY=$HOME/deps/skia/out/Release-x64/libskia.a \
      -G Ninja \
      ..
    ninja aseprite

In this case, `$HOME/deps/skia` is the directory where Skia was
compiled or uncompressed.

### GCC compiler

In case that you are using the pre-compiled Skia version, you must use
the clang compiler and libc++ to compile Aseprite. Only if you compile
Skia with GCC, you will be able to compile Aseprite with GCC, and this
is not recommended as you will have a performance penalty doing so.

# Using shared third party libraries

If you don't want to use the embedded code of third party libraries
(i.e. to use your installed versions), you can disable static linking
configuring each `USE_SHARED_` option.

After running `cmake -G`, you can edit `build/CMakeCache.txt` file,
and enable the `USE_SHARED_` flag (set its value to `ON`) of the
library that you want to be linked dynamically.
